See LICENSE in subdirectories for any specific license to that directory.

Copyright Richard Emslie 2018 - present.


# Data License for use in AI and ML

This license covers the Data made available by Licensor to you(“Licensee”) under the following
terms.Licensee’s use of the data consists acceptance of the terms of this license
agreement(“License”).

# Definitions

a.“Data” means the informational content(individually or as a whole) made available by Licensor.
b.“Model” means machine - learning or artificial - intelligence based algorithms, or assemblies
thereof that, in combination with different techniques, may be used to obtain certain
results.Without limitation, such results can be insights on past data patterns, predictions on
future trends or more abstract results.  c.“Output” means the results of operating a Trained Model
as embodied in informational content resulting therefrom.  d.“Representation” means a Model that
mimics the effects of the Data, but does not contain any individual data points or allow third
parties to infer individual data points with currently existing technology.  e.“Labelled Data”
means the associated metadata and informational content derived from Data which identify, comment
or otherwise derive information from Data, such as tags and labels.  f.“Third Parties” means
individuals or entities that are not under common control with Licensee.  g.“Train” means to expose
an Untrained Model to the Data in order to adjust the weights, hyperparameters and / or structure
thereof.  h.“Trained Model” means a Model that is exposed to Data such that its weights, parameters
and architecture embody insights from the Data.  i.“Untrained Model” means Model that is conceived
and reduced to practice as to its structure, components and architecture but that has not been
trained on Data such that its weights, parameters and architecture do not embody insights from the
Data.

# General Clauses

a.Unless otherwise agreed in writing by the parties, the data is licensed “as is” and “as
available”.Licensor excludes all representations, warranties, obligations, and liabilities, whether
express or implied, to the maximum extent permitted by law.  b.Nothing in this License permits
Licensee to make use of Licensor’s trademarks, trade names, logos or to otherwise suggest
endorsement or misrepresent the relationship between the parties.  c.The rights granted under this
license are deemed to be non - exclusive, worldwide, perpetual and irrevocable, unless otherwise
specified in writing by Licensor.  d.Without limiting Licensee’s rights available under applicable
law, all rights not expressly granted hereunder are hereby reserved by Licensor.The Data and the
database under which it is made available remain the property of Licensor(and / or its affiliates
or licensors).  e.This license shall be terminated upon any breach by Licensee of the terms of this
License.

# Licensed Rights to the Data.

a.Licensor hereby grants the following rights to Licensee with respect to making use of the Data
itself.

1. Access the Data, where “access” means to access, view and / or download the Data to view it and
evaluate it(evaluation algorithms may be exposed to it, but no Untrained Models).

Distribute the Data, i.e. to make all or part of the Data available to Third Parties.  Creation of
Tagged Data.  Creation of a Representation of the Data.


b.The rights granted in (a) above exclude the following rights with respect to making use of the
Data itself:



# Licensed Rights in Conjunction with Models.

a.Licensor hereby grants the following rights to Licensee with respect to making use of the Data in
conjunction with Models.

To access the Data, use the Data as training data to evaluate the efficiency of different Untrained
Models, algorithms and structures, but excludes reuse of the Trained Model, except to show the
results of the Training. This includes the right to use the dataset to measure performance of a
Trained or Untrained Model, without however having the right to carry-over weights, code or
architecture or implement any modifications resulting from the Evaluation.  To access the Data, use
the Data to create or improve Models, but without the right to use the Output or resulting Trained
Model for any purpose other than evaluating the Model Research under the same terms.  To make
available to Third Parties the Models resulting from Research, provided however that third parties
accessing such Trained Models have the right to use them for Research or Publication only.  To
access the Data, use the Data to create or improve Models and resulting Output, but without the
right to Output Commercialization or Model Commercialization. The Output can be used internally for
any purpose, but not made available to Third Parties or for their benefit.  To access the Data, use
the Data to create or improve Models and resulting Output, with the right to make the Output
available to Third Parties or to use it for their benefit, without the right to Model
Commercialization.


b.The rights granted in (a) above exclude the following rights with respect to making use of the
Data in conjunction with Models:



# Attribution and Notice

The origin of the Data and notices included with the Data shall be made available to Third Parties
to whom the Data, Output and / Model have been made available.Licensee shall make commercially
reasonable efforts to link to the source of the Data.If so indicated by the Licensor in writing
alongside the Data that the use shall be deemed confidential, then Licensee shall not publicly
refer to Licensor and / or the source of the Data.
